WI #616: Addition of five columns related to `Pricing Currency` (#848)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/columns/pricingtobillingexchangerate.md

> # Pricing to Billing Exchange Rate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Billing Exchange Rate
```

Author: I'm going to resolve this suggestion and leave [this thread](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/848#discussion_r1997419559) open where you suggest slimming down to `Billing Exchange Rate`, just so we have one and only one place for collecting this feedback.

> # Pricing to Billing Exchange Rate

Reviewer 2: Here's where this isn't working in the case of credits at least for providers I've dealt with (I don't think I explained this on the call well enough last Friday). 

For something like Snowflake, they say a Small warehouse is 2 credits/hr publicly. This is the list unit price. They also publicly provide rates for their credits (in their case by account type but ignore that complexity for now). You can see an example [here](https://www.snowflake.com/legal-files/CreditConsumptionTable.pdf). As an example, let's use a VPS account type, which has a rate of $6 per Credit.

The small warehouse would cost 2 credits for one hour of usage at 'List'. Credits are converted based on the $6/credit rate (PricingToBillingExchangeRate). Therefore, you're spending $12 for that single hour of usage in ListCost.

Now, some hypothetical customer who buys a lot of Snowflake might hypothetically get a 10% negotiated discount. This discount is not applied on the unit price. It's instead applied on the exchange rate. In this case, the $6/credit might have been reduced to $5.40/credit. The PricingCurrencyListUnitPrice and PricingCurrencyContractedUnitPrice are both still 2 (since the unit price is 2 credits/hour). However, the Contracted Cost is actually $10.80. The current way of representing a single rate does not give the right cost value if P*Q*R is done for all cost columns since we're either using $6/credit or $5.40/credit in the exchange rate.

We might need ListPricingCurrencyExchangeRate and a ContractedPricingCurrencyExchangeRate.

Reviewer 3: @UdamDewaraja what's the problem in the example you provided? If there were two different PricingToBillingExchangeRates these would be represented in two different rows. 

PricingCurrencyListUnitPrice - PricingCurrencyContractedUnitPrice - PricingToBillingExchangeRate - PricedCost
2 - 2 - 6 - 12
2 - 2 - 5.4 - 10.80

Reviewer 4: @UdamDewaraja When present, the `ContractedPricingToBillingExchangeRate `(discounted PricingToBillingExchangeRate) results in further discounted `ContractedUnitPrice `and `PricingCurrencyContractedUnitPrice`, right? 
I understand and agree that this wouldn’t be the `PricingCurrencyContractedUnitPrice` you see in your contract, but that’s what you basically get when you apply both of your negotiated discounts, correct?

Author: Talking this through with @mike-finopsorg and @thecloudman: the `Pricing to Billing Exchange Rate` is ultimately applicable to the `Pricing Currency Effective Cost`.

Instead of adding a `Pricing Currency List Exchange Rate` column, we can calculate it by backing into it:

> `Pricing Currency List Exchange Rate` = `List Cost / Pricing Currency List Unit Price`

Same for `Pricing Currency Contracted Exchange Rate`:

> `Pricing Currency List Exchange Rate` = `Contracted Cost / Pricing Currency Contracted Unit Price`

Would this be sufficient, or do we feel that we need a specific Exchange Rate for each of these fields?

Reviewer 5: We can't leave exchange rate out. That needs to be documented to validate the numbers. Imagine rounding errors cause different exchange rates to be calculated. Customers would go back and ask the provider to adjust everything to the lowest exchange rate they see. This would be horrible.

This feels concerning. I'm sad I missed the call, but it seems like we're not ready either way. From a data size perspective, I would rather not duplicate a bunch of columns that aren't needed 99% of the time. This is where the exchange rate simplified things a lot. If there's a need for multiple exchange rates (which seems crazy to me) then I would almost rather just add conditional columns that only applies in those scenarios.

I think we need more data before we can close on it.

Reviewer 2: @flanakin You'll want to understand the fairly common SaaS scenario that people like Snowflake and Mongo use for negotiated discounts to understand the comment above. Apologies for not putting an example and only describing this in text earlier. Here's the data [representation](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1H69HmngVv-mKpFR-sveY-fSAdR49syqQd7AKOPPQ64A/edit?gid=1869819687#gid=1869819687&range=P54) (some cells have comments to explain)

Side note: I also have concerns about the number of columns and have been pushing for the minimum case. However, this case is definitely one where we'd only show half the information.

Author: Relevant commits applied.  Resolving.

> A Pricing to Billing Exchange Rate represents the conversion factor from [Pricing Currency](#pricingcurrency) to [Billing Currency](#billingcurrency).  Pricing to Billing Exchange Rate is commonly used in scenarios where costs need to be grouped or aggregated by some combination of the following currency types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Billing Exchange Rate represents the conversion factor from [Pricing Currency](#pricingcurrency) to [Billing Currency](#billingcurrency).  Billing Exchange Rate is commonly used in scenarios where costs need to be grouped or aggregated by some combination of the following currency types:
```

Reviewer: I like simplification and think using just Billing Exchange Rate would be suitable for this column name

Reviewer 6: Are we aligned that the PricingToBillingExchangeRate could fluctuate from row to row? I dont think thats a problem, just want to highlight it.

Author: @gparker-at-sf I believe we are aligned on that, based on TF3 conversations, including this past Fri Mar 14.  I should add some verbiage to call that out.

Reviewer: Im going to delete this suggestion as the consensus is to go with the long column name.

Reviewer 7: (slightly repetitive from an above comment) Has there been any thought in past TF's around how to support virtual currencies _with_ an exchange rate?

Reviewer 3: @cnharris10 can you elaborate on what you mean by that? All virtual currencies will have an exchange rate to the billing currency.

Do you mean what if a virtual currency is pegged to an exchange rate? As in, 1 token != 1 USD but rather 1 token = the current EUR = USD exchange rate? That sounds odd, but regardless that could still be supported since there will be a billing currency and the PricingToBillingExchangeRate could be different on every row.

Reviewer 7: @GrinsteadJ This is the thread I was referring to.  Any insight there is appreciated.

> A Pricing to Billing Exchange Rate represents the conversion factor from [Pricing Currency](#pricingcurrency) to [Billing Currency](#billingcurrency).  Pricing to Billing Exchange Rate is commonly used in scenarios where costs need to be grouped or aggregated by some combination of the following currency types:
> 
> * National currency (e.g. USD, EUR).
> * Virtual currency (e.g. tokens, credits).
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Pricing to Billing Exchange Rate represents the conversion factor from [Pricing Currency](#pricingcurrency) to [Billing Currency](#billingcurrency).  Pricing to Billing Exchange Rate is commonly used in scenarios where different currencies are used for pricing and billing.

```

Author: Interesting, @UdamDewaraja.  Do you think it's confusing or duplicative to be explicit about the kinds of currencies we're facilitating exchange between?  I can get on board with striking that language, but I was trying to give context.  Curious what others think.

Author: Discussed in Mar 21 TF3 and agreed to sustain!

> The PricingToBillingExchangeRate column adheres to the following requirements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The BillingExchangeRate column adheres to the following requirements:
```

Author: I'm going to resolve this suggestion and leave [this thread](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/848#discussion_r1997419559) open where you suggest slimming down to `Billing Exchange Rate`, just so we have one and only one place for collecting this feedback.  If we do change course on the name, I promise I'll scrub it throughout.  :)

> * PricingToBillingExchangeRate presence in a [*FOCUS dataset*](#glossary:FOCUS-dataset) is defined as follows:
>   * PricingToBillingExchangeRate MUST be present in a FOCUS dataset when the provider presents prices in a virtual currency (e.g. credits, tokens).
>   * PricingToBillingExchangeRate MUST be present in a FOCUS dataset when the provider presents prices and bills in different national currencies (e.g. priced in USD and billed in EUR).
>   * PricingToBillingExchangeRate MAY be present in a FOCUS dataset in all other cases.
> * PricingToBillingExchangeRate MUST be of type Decimal.
> * PricingToBillingExchangeRate MUST conform to [Numeric Format](#numericformat) requirements.
> * PricingToBillingExchangeRate MUST NOT be null.
> * PricingToBillingExchangeRate MUST be a non-negative decimal value.
> * PricingToBillingExchangeRate MUST represent the conversion factor from [Pricing Currency](#pricingcurrency) to [Billing Currency](#billingcurrency).
> * PricingToBillingExchangeRate MUST equal 1 when the Pricing Currency and Billing Currency are the same value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* BillingExchangeRate presence in a [*FOCUS dataset*](#glossary:FOCUS-dataset) is defined as follows:
  * BillingExchangeRate MUST be present in a FOCUS dataset when the provider presents prices in a virtual currency (e.g. credits, tokens).
  * BillingExchangeRate MUST be present in a FOCUS dataset when the provider presents prices and usage in different national currencies (e.g. priced in USD and billed in EUR).
  * BillingExchangeRate MAY be present in a FOCUS dataset in all other cases.
* BillingExchangeRate MUST be of type Decimal.
* BillingExchangeRate MUST conform to [Numeric Format](#numericformat) requirements.
* BillingExchangeRate MUST NOT be null.
* BillingExchangeRate MUST be a non-negative decimal value.
* BillingExchangeRate MUST represent the conversion factor from [Pricing Currency](#pricingcurrency) to [Billing Currency](#billingcurrency).
* BillingExchangeRate MUST equal 1 when the Pricing Currency and Billing Currency are the same value.
```

Author: I'm going to resolve this suggestion and leave [this thread](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/848#discussion_r1997419559) open where you suggest slimming down to `Billing Exchange Rate`, just so we have one and only one place for collecting this feedback.  If we do change course on the name, I promise I'll scrub it throughout.  :)

## Column ID

> PricingToBillingExchangeRate
> 
> ## Display Name
> 
> Pricing to Billing Exchange Rate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
BillingExchangeRate

## Display Name

Billing Exchange Rate
```

Author: I'm going to resolve this suggestion and leave [this thread](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/848#discussion_r1997419559) open where you suggest slimming down to `Billing Exchange Rate`, just so we have one and only one place for collecting this feedback.  If we do change course on the name, I promise I'll scrub it throughout.  :)
